# Checking-in

As event organizers it is easy to think that once we have established a code of conduct and shared ideas about norms of behavior, that our job is done and we can sit back to watch the event unfold. In our experience it is necessary to offer consistent facilitation throughout the event. One reason for this is that people have a tendancy to forget things, even after a few days. This may be especially true when we are in an environment that is challenging us in new ways. Another reason for consistent check-ins is that after a few days, people will have had some first-hand experience with working in teams and conflicts may arise in ways they never might have imagined at the start of the event.

## Project Check-ins

It is a good idea to have regular check-ins with project teams in an effort to identify challenges before they become problematic, as well as to share any achievements and successes so far. The check-ins can be quite short, for example a 5-10 minute stand-up meeting where each team is asked to share one success and one challenge in their project so far. This is reported out to the full group in the hopes that other teams might be able to offer advice or resources in an area where a team might be stuck. At geohackweek we distributed post-it notes to each team on day 3 of the event and invited everyone to write down specific things that were working well, and other things that were areas for improvement. These were then displayed anonomyously on poster paper attached to a wall visible to everyone. As a group we then looked for patterns and common themes and discussed potential courses of action to address chellenges that needed to be solved.
